[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Wisenthal.
>> Joe, we are in Washington DC. Do you
know who else is in our nation's
capital? Lots of people, lots of people
are in our nation's capital. Yes. Right
now. The I could go on and on. There's a
lot of people live there permanently,
but also a lot of people visiting this
week like we are.
>> True. Okay. So, one person in particular
is visiting who is of note for this
particular podcast. And that is Javier
Malay. He is the president of Argentina
and he's meeting with Trump today.
They're supposed to finalize like the
$20 billion swap that Argentina just got
from the US Treasury. Basically,
Argentina is getting their like eenth
bailout. I tried to count all of them,
but then I stopped because I was like, I
have a life. But normally, a lot of
those bailouts come from the IMF. This
one's coming from the Treasury, so it's
fairly unusual. It also comes with a lot
fewer terms than some other deals.
>> But this is a good time to talk about
Argentina and why it seems to constantly
be in financial trouble and either
defaulting or on the verge of a default.
You know, I'm like traumatized by
Argentina topics, right? Wait, why?
Well, I've probably said it once or
twice before on the podcast, but you
know, one of the first time I applied
for a job in New York City was with uh
Brad Settzer. And he was like, and in
the middle of the interview, he's like,
"How would you character?" This is 2006,
maybe. He's like, "How would you
characterize the struggles of
Argentina?" And I just totally blanked.
I like literally didn't get a word out
and I didn't get the job obviously. So,
I've sort of this is a huge blind spot
for me and it's almost like a blind spot
I'm afraid to revisit, but we have to
dive in. I have to learn more
eventually. One more bailout. This one's
going to work, right? This one's going
to be the last.
>> One one more lane, bro.
>> Yes. So, and you know the the other
interesting thing about this is Malay
was he was initially praised for
reducing inflation. I think it was
something like over 200% and it got down
to 33% which by US standards still
pretty high. But he did that by slashing
government spending and selling
Argentina's FX reserves to prop up the
peso. And now fast forward a little bit
of time and that approach doesn't seem
to be working anymore. So again, there's
lots to talk about.
>> There's so much about Argentina that
confuses me, including like why is it
like this? Because there are lots of
countries that have institutional
struggles of various sorts. There are a
lot of countries that are poor. There
are a lot of countries that whatever. I
can't think of any other country that
just is always always at the trough like
this. It's not that poor of a country,
etc. I don't really understand why this
is this persistent thing distinct to
this country.
>> All right, our first question will be
why is Argentina like this?
>> Yeah. Why is Argentina like this?
>> And then after we record this interview,
you can write a little essay for Brad
Setszer and send it to him for his job.
Yeah. And then he'll hire me.
>> All right. Well, I am very happy to say
that we do in fact have the perfect
guest. We are going to be speaking with
Gregory Moff. He is the author of
Default: The Landmark Court Battle Over
Argentina's hundred billion dollar debt
restructuring. I read this book when it
first came out. It was absolutely
fantastic. And even though it's about,
you know, a very complex court
proceeding, it's it's a page turner and
there are lots of really interesting
anecdotes and lots of interesting
personalities as well. So, Greg, thank
you so much for coming on the podcast.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> So, uh I guess I should start with that
first question. Um, what's up with
Argentina?
>> Well, for the history, they
>> start from the very beginning.
>> Start from wherever you want.
>> They spend too much.
>> Okay. But lots of countries spend too
much.
>> Well, they've
they're particularly politically divided
and do have a reform effort. Countries
have a crisis, then they reform.
Hopefully, they embed the reforms and
they graduate to a certain level of
stability. But whereas the Mexicos and
the Brazils and the Peru and the
Colombia and and the Panmas did succeed
in the '9s in their Brady programs and
have not defaulted since Argentina and
Venezuela have been distinct in not
reforming and massively overspending.
>> That's the big difference. There's no
magic or no mystery here.
>> Well, can you explain maybe just I think
this might be helpful for me. What is it
about the political environment of
Argentina, which is not the poorest
country in the world by any stretch?
What is it about the political
environment of Argentina such that it's
never been able to, as you put it, embed
reforms in the ways that other countries
that struggled in the '9s were able to
>> machine politics, peronism.
>> So, all I know about Argentina comes
from basically your book. I covered the
New York court case a little bit when I
was at the FT, but also all my knowledge
comes from Andrew Lloyd Weber's musical
Eva, which is fantastic and I highly
recommend, but can you explain what
peronism is? Yeah,
>> Peronism is kind of a shape shifter, but
it goes back historically
to Juan Peron who was the president or
dictator for a while in the 50s and he
in the post-war world was aligned with
labor forces and cut the country off
from the outside world nationalistic.
It became a political machine that
controlled the apparatus of government
and the unions and everything. So it
embedded itself. Carlos Menim, the
president in the '9s who reformed was a
peronist. He had the political machine,
but he was a reformer, an imperfect
reformer, and that broke down in 2001.
But then the Kchners were also peronists
and they have a particularly viralent
version of Peronism, which is really
what we're talking about here is
Kchnerism.
So peronis come in many different
flavors and when we're talking about the
current situation it's really the kchner
version of peronism versus the melee
version of let's finally balance our
budget.
>> I want to get to MLE obviously but just
go into this a little bit more machine
politics again not something that's
alien to other countries in the world
that's fairly common. talk about the
sort of application or every country has
some kind of machine politics. What
makes that kchnerism etc so powerful and
difficult to dislodge? How is it
operationalized? The machine
>> the way the cash moves.
>> Okay.
>> In that if you get a a bailout check
during co you get it from the federal
government in the mail.
>> Okay. In the 2001 crisis, some of the
emergency money that was allocated even
from international institutions was
given to Argentina who was given to
peronis party operatives to hand out in
the barios. You literally get checks
from party operatives or in regions from
the party governor under a picture of
the governor in Peron. So in many cases
the cash flow looks like a gift from the
leader and the party and then when the
leader says oh there's a peronist rally
in Buenosares we'd like you to get on a
bus the people who depend on them for
the check say I guess I got to go.
>> Wow I had no idea that happened. Okay,
so Malay campaigned on a platform of
massively reducing government spending
in order to bring down inflation and all
types of austerity. It wasn't
necessarily IMF style reform, but it was
supposed to be a reduction in spending.
And yet here we are and Argentina is
getting its 20 billion bailout. Do the
politics of economic pain, I guess the
idea of people no longer handing out
checks in the barios and stuff like
that, does that make serious spending
reductions just untenable in Argentina?
We should back up a bit
>> and get a bit historical
>> because the people voted in 2023 for
Mille because they were in such economic
chaos. They voted for a complete
outsider with a very particular message
that had a lot of truth for them. And
his promise was pain now, success later.
Let's finally have reform and sustain it
to stop this 200 years of boom bust
devaluation and default.
Now the context of this just from 2001
is the country the program of the 90 of
menum falling apart and facing a
devaluation and default hundred billion
dollar debt default as I talk about in
my book.
The people were in the street screaming,
"They all must go." And they were
banging pots and pans, clink, clink,
clink, clink. And the president left in
a helicopter from the the top of Kasa
Rosada. And they had a reform program.
They ran a very tight budget, tighter
even than Millle is running between 03
and '05.
But then they didn't sustain the reform.
And after 2010, they've been in the
boom, then the bust and default from
2010 to 23. So again, they voted for
mele because they were saying they all
must go. The rest of the political class
who couldn't deliver must go. We want
stability. Now the brilliance of Millle
is he said
we spent too much. We print too much
money. we have inflation. And that was
true. And he symbolized it with a
chainsaw,
>> right?
>> Because it was the problem and the
solution. I've seen pictures of him at a
rally. He's not even talking. He just
holds it up.
>> That's really powerful.
>> And he lent that chainsaw to Elon Musk
as well.
>> Oh, he did?
>> Yeah. That was that was Malay's
chainsaw. Wait, what happened to that
other guy? Wasn't there some guy like
around 2016 or 2017 that all the
international community loved and
thought he was going to be the great
neoliberal reformer there?
>> That was Mackery.
>> Oh yeah, Mackery. Right. What happened
to that guy?
>> Well, the people
were tired of the chaos of Christina
Fernandez Durchner who was president for
two terms after her husband Netor was
president for one term.
>> He died after her first term. He was
going to run again. So she had two and
things were bad including on the bond
default and all the litigation and MRI
is like I'm going to bring a normal
country and he did some great things at
first but his program fell apart which
brought back an even worse peronist
administration with Alberto Fernandez
who had been the chief of cabinet for
Neesa Kchner with Christina Fernandez de
Kurtchner as the vice president and then
COVID hit. They did default again and
they handed over the reigns to Millle
with like 150% annualized inflation.
So there was an urge to reform under MRI
but he had such a bad imbalance of too
much monetary emission in the local
market. He couldn't get out from it fast
enough. He tried to slow walk it and be
gradualistic and he couldn't make it
through.
[Music]
So Malay took a chainsaw to government
spending in Argentina. It seems
inflation did come down. Why do they
need a bailout now? Their eenth bailout.
Actually, I should ask you. You might
actually know how many times Argentina
has been bailed out.
>> I have the number on how many defaults.
>> Okay.
>> The bailouts. We'd have to check the
number. But first of all, I would term
the Treasury support is not a surprise
and was always in the cards from the IMF
program in April. M the IMF program for
what it was doing in the negative
reserve position they inherited from the
prior government was always too thin.
They were always vulnerable to a
speculative attack. They were always
vulnerable around the midterm elections
and a speculative attack occurred and as
Treasury hinted they would they stood
behind the IMF. This is nothing new.
This is not a failure of the program.
This is completely predictable.
The way it unfolded in the speed
leaves a bad impression, but as an
observer for a long time, this was no
surprise. In Besson's word, we really
need to have an orderly election here.
This is true. The people have to choose.
Are we going to sustain reform and stop
defaulting
or are we going to go back to the other
way and go back to overspending money
printing devaluation inflation and
default? There's a very stark difference
between what the kissoff leadership of
the party will lead the country to and
what a continued leadership by Millle
and a centeright coalition. Well,
>> can you actually explain a little bit
further? Reform is a nebulous term.
Sounds good, but I don't really know
what it means. What substantively have
we seen from the current administration
in terms of either spending cuts or
so-called reforms? What's been done so
far?
>> The single number to focus on is the
primary surplus.
>> Okay.
>> It's kind of like the free cash flow for
a company,
>> but it's your net cash flow before your
debt payments. your revenue in minus
your expenses and your debt does not
stabilize unless that's positive and
positive enough to pay off your existing
debt at a reasonable pace. Countries
like us, the US, we're running negative
primary surplus which means we're
incurring more debt and we're
refinancing maturing debt with more and
more which has debt going up. Argentina
to stabilize its situation has to run a
primary surplus of let's say 3%.
Under Minister of Economy Levana who was
a great reformer from 2002 to 2005 when
Kchner fired him for being too tough.
They were running a 5% primary totally
stabilized the economy. Millle's program
is carefully calibrated to stop monetary
emission and stabilize the economy.
There's nothing arbitrary about it. It
is the kind of macroeconomic
stabilization that you have to do. It
makes sense and moreover it is done
sensitively. They protected the basket
of money available to the poorest
households.
>> So where are they cutting?
>> They adjust a lot of different things.
Most importantly, they did things like
you don't get free buses anymore. You
don't get free trains. So they moved the
costs of those things up to a market
rate and utilities because the Kchners
they also defaulted on all the utility
contracts in 2001. They never normalized
utility rates. So one of their fiscal
problems around 2000 after 2010 is they
were subsidizing the power bills for
everyone which was costing 4% of GDP a
year. That's why you have a primary
deficit. And they said we can't do that.
So they corrected those popular
household
subsidies and they did some adjustments
including to the indexation of pension
and that's a next level topic in terms
of what the Kchners did to reindex the
whole society.
So, we've been very focused on what
Argentina itself is doing and why it
seems to be in a perpetual financial
predicament, but maybe we could talk
about the role of external actors a
little bit more. So in your book again,
fabulous story of the big um court case
over Argentina debt, but one of the
criticisms of this whole process is that
every time you successfully work out
defaulted debt or every time you reach a
settlement,
the country can just return to market
fairly quickly, right? So it's never
really punished that much or enough to
make it seriously think about reducing
its debt. Is there some truth to that?
Are there things that external actors
like the court system or the IMF should
be doing to stop this from repeatedly
happening?
>> I really think the question you ask is
the most important one, but it's really
about the soul of the Argentine people.
Have they had enough pain to insist
their government
follows robust financial policies? They
either elect people who will be straight
with them about what they can afford and
set up policies they will follow like
Gordon Brown's golden rule and things
like that or they will elect politicians
who say, "Oh, I'll make it easier on
you."
>> And so the people shocked me in 2023 on
finishing my book. I was depressed. I
saw no way out of perpetual chaos. And
then Millle came and they voted for him
because the people said, "Please, we
want to be an orderly country." Now
we're at the midterm, put aside the last
6 weeks of chaos.
>> You're asking the people, "Will you
stick to the plan to get to the finish
line, or are you going to say, "We're
tired. We don't want to try so hard
again." They may very well go for Miller
and Mackery and say, "We do want to
complete it. we we didn't like this blow
up that happened. We don't want to go
there or they're gonna do something
else. So, no outside party can tell a
sovereign nation what to do. No judge.
The judge makes it worse.
>> Mhm.
>> The IMF,
it has to come internally.
>> Is the problem democracy? I mean, we've
talked about No, for real. Like we've
talked about this in the context of um
Fritz Bartell uh wrote a book um the
triumph of broken promises. Similar
story with the post Soviet states and
how they ultimately broke apart from the
Soviet Union because of the sort of
difficulty that they had in making
difficult decisions and these attempts
to impose austerity or live within their
means etc. and they finally like it
didn't work anymore and and in the early
80s somehow the UK found a way to you
know sort of do an internal adjustment
but these things are like really hard in
a democracy they're really hard in a
system in which every two years there's
a referendum on how it's going and if
it's painful I understand why people
don't want to continue with it even
though maybe long-term it's beneficial
like I'm not really proposing this but
like in your view does someone like a
Main need like a nice like 10 year or 20
year runway where he doesn't have to
face the voters.
>> You know what I'm saying? Like is this
the issue is that these difficult things
keep coming up for a vote over time and
in the middle it's like what are we
getting here?
>> Yeah. And somebody wrote a book a black
rock manager gave me. He says, "Greg,
this is the best book. It's called a
free country deep in debt
>> about the histories of countries getting
in debt." He said, "You don't need to
know any more than that. But there's
this challenge between democracy and
running a balanced budget. But
populations learn and I heard I think it
was a Moody's analyst or a Fitch analyst
last year talking about the debt
trajectories in Europe. He said France
is going up and this country is going up
and the UK is going up. But you know
what? Greece is going down and Spain is
going down and Italy is going down
because the crisis country people don't
want to go through the disaster again.
So when you have people like Argentina
who dealt with hyperinflation,
they don't want to be lied to. They know
the cost of no pain now and suffering
later. Now Americans, we don't know.
We're willing to have the government
massively overspend because we want low
taxes now and more benefits now and we
don't know what a imbalanced budget
mean. You can go forever. But when
you've been in Argentina and you've
suffered it, you want a government who
says, "I'm not going to overspend
because you've lived the cost."
Countries, the people embed that
knowledge in their voting behavior and
they can sustain it year after year.
That's called graduating. That's the
point of this election, this midterm.
Did the Argentine people get the message
and they are now going to sustain the
path because they understand the costs
or are they going to just say, "I'm
tired of it. Let's go back." We don't
know the answer. We will know on the
26th of October after they vote on the
27th. And it's an incredible historical
moment that we're facing.
[Music]
Okay. So, the new bailout that's getting
finalized today in DC between Trump and
>> we're recording this the 14th, by the
way, October 14th.
>> I should have said October 14th. So, the
new bailout does have direct US
involvement. I know you said it was part
of the earlier IMF agreement, but still
people are, you know, talking about the
US doing a $20 billion bailout of
Argentina. Do you think that involvement
changes maybe creditor debtor dynamics
in the future?
>> I think in the short term, right now,
it's a big bazooka to stop a run on the
bank.
There is a speculative attack on the
Argentine peso at the worst possible
time and the Perona start amping it up.
Christina Fernandez de Kchner, I think
it was October 1st, is on X saying, "Oh,
he's going to devalue right after the
election
>> and okay, pour more speculative attacks
on. That's kind of odd behavior towards
your own country." And so, Treasury is
responding by putting a huge bazooka.
It's very expensive to be short. And so
this should put all those shorts out of
business. They have an orderly election.
And you don't even know the extent that
these sort of external things nobody
understand really affects behavior.
They're living their life. They're
worrying about their bills. They're know
their local stories about what's
happened, what Millie has done and
hasn't done, and what people are saying.
This is just another piece of noise in a
complicated picture. external creditors.
That's a different question. This is
perceptually very important. Bonds
started rallying because you have people
like was it Bob Catron said he
immediately bought a lot of bonds and
they went up and he's saying, "Oh,
Treasury is backing Argentina. You buy
long-term bonds because of short-term
bailout. That's a risky thing to do, but
it's pro Argentina. It helps stabilize
the situation." But the market is so
afraid
of kissalof in particular. So not just
peronism which I explained it had
reformer men in early Nester Kchner was
quite reformist but it has this Kissalof
Christina Fernandez de Kchner version of
Peronism which involved notorious
defaulting and Kisalv was directly
involved with the nationalization of YPF
in 2012 which you know led to the $16
billion judgment. in the court because
the way minority shareholders were
treated the non-payment of some GDP
warrants that were due I think in 2013
which led to a 1.5 billion judgment in
the UK court and was deeply involved
with Christina Fredanis de Kurtchner
dner in the redault under the Perry Pasu
threat in 2014
went to New York and failed to negotiate
in a deal which was basically on the
table slightly better than what MRI took
two years, a year and a half later, but
wouldn't take it or couldn't figure out
how to take it. And so foreigners see
this ghost of default their past as
coming back into power. So if they see
any big chance of Kesal coming back,
they're going to run. So that's how the
bond holders buying dollar bonds in New
York think. They're very happy when
Treasury comes. But we should talk for a
minute about the election and what
success means.
>> Can I ask one more question before we
talk about that?
>> Yeah.
>> Why do investors keep buying Argentina
bonds?
>> I should play you this tape. The second
circuit in one of their two hour and a
half hearings. Judge Pooler, Rosemary
Per, who was the nice judge in very
kindly voice at the end of a hearing
looked to Argentina's council Jonathan
Blackman and said, "Can I ask you a
question sort of off the record?" He
says, "Sure."
She says, "Why would anybody who can
read ever buy a bond from Argentina?"
>> That's right.
>> Jonathan Blackman had the best answer.
He's like, "They didn't default
arbitrarily. They were suffering a
crisis worse than the Great Depression.
It was like VHimar Germany with middle
class people selling their furniture on
the street. Like he was brilliant in
that spontaneous answer to the question.
But I keep thinking of that question and
we're back there. But Millle and the P
party with Mackery and reforms they
don't need a lot at this election in the
sense with 33%
of the lower house they continue to veto
legislation they don't like and rule by
decree and things. So the chance that
the peronas completely take over the
legislative branch is really low. We're
just facing a more bigger picture
perceptional question. Which direction
is the mind of the voter going in
leading to the next presidential
election? Are they really tired of MLE
and they're going to go back to Kisoff
as their leader or are they going to
stick in the reformist direction with
some complaints and demands for
readjustment of direction?
>> So what should we watch? So okay, tell
us a little bit about what date is the
election again?
>> October 26th.
>> Okay. So what what should we be watching
for on that day so that we can be smart
and I can you know post a tweet that's
insightful or something like that.
It's first the percentage that Mille's
party gets,
>> okay?
>> Plus the percentage that MR's party gets
plus then the percentage that other
center reformist center right parties
get. And you want to know they have
blocking minority, a veto proof minority
in each house. That's the minimum. But
you would hope that they get a majority
as a coalition in let's say the lower
chamber. So there's between the best
case and the lower case. What the
markets, the bond holders in New York
would fear is a sort of blowout for the
Peronist and the strong message from
every corner of the country.
>> What's the name of the Ponist party?
>> It keeps changing its name. So right now
they often set up a new legal vehicle
for every single election. So the name
changes so much. So I kind of
>> Yeah.
>> avoid the names.
>> Okay. But it's the Peronis party.
>> Yeah. Now what they're calling
themselves is for Patrea like homeland
party.
>> Got it. I see. So there the reason these
anxieties kicked off is because there
were some small regional elections in
which they did well which got people in
the minds of thinking oh they might have
a really good midterms. Oh, no. It's far
more fun than that.
>> Okay, good.
>> And there's a lot of history in this.
>> It was not a small regional election. It
was the biggest region of Buenosares who
had an offcycle early election for
provincial offices and it was a
deliberate political ploy to bring down
Melee. Here's the history. 2019
in the presidential election, they had
the primary in let's say July, August.
the presidential elections in October.
The weirdest system ever called the POSO
is the primary where you don't vote by
party for your candidate within the
party. Everybody votes for all the
candidates
>> and those who run for a party are those
who ran better, but it's kind of like an
early vote on who's going to win. And
Alberto Fernandez with the former
president Kchner running as his vice
president did so well that the markets
tanked. It was a self-fulfilling
prophecy
that Mack's people can barely make it to
the finish line because the currency and
local interest rates and bonds were
exploding. And so
that lesson meant mille in February said
we do not want to have a paso. We don't
want to have a primary. We just want to
have the election in October. So they
got the senate to agree to take the paso
off the table. But then kiselof where
the strength of peronism is in the
buenosares province where a lot of poor
people are. He said, "Oh, let's have our
provincial election 6 weeks or whatever
before because we know we'll do well and
they anticipated Millle would pound his
chest. I'm going to get the majority and
he might fail." And he did fail. And
even though he got let's say 35% which
nationally would be his veto proof
minority that he minimally needs to
continue to rule, it was less than he
said he'd get. So he did not manage the
perceptions well and his political team
got stung by that and he admitted it
wasn't handled well. So there was a lot
of history in this early vote being
engineered and as far as the corona
concerned it was a perfectly executed
attack on the stability of his program.
So this speculative attack is not a
failure of the program. It was really a
deliberate political process ahead of an
important vote.
>> I have a question actually about um MLE.
You know, he has this whole vibe. He's
sort of a colorful character. I think he
quotes like Austrian economists and
stuff like that, calls himself a
libertarian and sort of iconoclastic and
all that. But setting all that aside,
like would you characterize his economic
program as like fairly normie IMF style
regular economics?
>> Yes. And you have to separate
the political character
>> from the policy. And you have behind
him, remember he got elected. He did
well in the Po the primary in 2023.
I don't know if it was 35%.
And he beat out MR's candidate. So MRI
said, "I'm going to support you." So he
got to 55% trouncing the Pronis
opposition with MRI support. But part of
the deal was that Millle then took
the superstars, the financial superstars
of MR's administration, Caputo and
Basili to be his minister of economy and
as head of his central bank. Already
Mille had chosen Federico Sterszenegger
Harvard professor had worked in the MRI
government too to be his head of reform
has been churning out pages and pages of
reforms to make the country more
efficient. He has the tightest best
technical team behind him. Great
economist negotiating with the IMF
making sure the execution of the plan is
perfect which is not something Argentina
has ever seen. Having looked at 30 years
of history, this is an amazing tight
team. They work together as a team.
Melee completely supports them. But on
top of them, he says all kinds of wild
things. He's kind of a Trumpy character
like that. So, you have to separate the
sort of wild things he says from the
policy.
>> So, if I could ask you to put your
betting cap on, if you have one, how do
you think this plays out? Does Mille
retain the majority and Argentina is now
on a path to
non-default after many many many years
or are things going to go sideways
again?
>> I think they'll be fine. I think the
events of the last few weeks will be
noted in the history book. But the
people want normaly. Argentina can
always surprise you, but having looked
at what they've lived through, they
understand what's happening. And I'm
hopeful that this shocking instability
has reminded them of what's going to
happen if they don't stick with the
plan.
>> You mentioned that the um MLE character
is sort of Trumpian.
Trump himself, is he Malayan? Whatever
is like where like if you thought like
okay Trump who does he remind you of in
Argentina
>> Peron.
>> Okay.
>> It's totally ironic. They're total
opposites. I've written pieces about
this. You have two characters who bind
at an emotional political character
level. One of whom is massively
overspending in the United States. The
other one is running the most
disciplined reform ever. And they're
best friends. And then we have this
bailout. You can't make this up. So
non-fiction.
Who needs fiction when you have
Argentina?
>> No. Indeed. All right. Uh Greg, thank
you so much for coming on OddLots. The
book is Default: The Landmark Court
Battle over Argentina's hundred billion
dollar debt restructuring. And if you're
interested in this topic, definitely go
pick it up. That was fantastic. Thank
you so much.
>> Thanks, Greg. That was great.
>> Thank you.
[Music]
Joe, that was very interesting, very
timely. Do you feel like you could write
a little answer essay for Brad Setszer
now?
>> I mean, like for a job interview when
I'm 25 or 26, I could probably maybe
come up with I literally had it was so
embarrassing. I like it's like you open
your mouth and no words come out. That's
what happens.
>> Yeah, that's painful.
>> What I'm really interested in still is
why the political environment is as
messed up as it is or messed up as it
seems to be and what is it about
Argentina specifically that somehow
other countries like the Mexicos etc
didn't fall into that trap. But also
like you know if it gets going say I
don't know I worry I worry about I worry
about all kinds of things but corruption
debt etc. It seems like you could fall
into some very bad very bad cycles that
are hard to escape from. Well, it also
feels like there's a tension between
what Greg was saying about, you know,
the Argentinian people need to decide if
they've had enough of, you know, being
serial defaulters and high inflation and
if they're willing to trade that for
austerity.
>> But on the other hand, you know, having
someone come out to the bario and hand
you a check for a bunch of cash sounds
really good. So, it does seem to be a a
decision for sure.
>> Yeah, it seems really difficult. And
there's just, you know, there's just the
reality that, okay, you can get by
without help from abroad, but then you
might have to deal with sort of a
massively reduced standard of living,
devalued peso, etc. No, no easy options
here.
>> Yeah. I'm also still kind of wondering
who is buying Argentina bonds all the
time.
>> Let's find an investor. I mean, haven't
they haven't they done well? Don't they
always like, you know, they end up with
a a bond in a yacht or something like
that? Don't they end up they get a ship?
>> It was bigger than a yacht. Yeah. All
right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Gregory Moff. He's goff. Follow our
producers Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen
Arman Dashel Bennett at Dashbot and
Kalebrooks at Kalebrooks. For more
OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots
with the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoy OddLotss, if you like
it when we talk about Argentina's latest
bailout, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to
all of our episodes absolutely adree.
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
Heat. Heat.
[Music]